Juan Diaz 
Dr. Rivas 
CMPT-308
Lab 6


1. Display the name and city of customers who live in any city that makes the most different kinds of products. (There are two cities that make the most different products. Return the name and city of customers from either one of those.)

select name, city 
from customers 
where city = (select city 
		from products products
		group by city 
		order by count(city) desc limit 1);


2. Display the names of products whose priceUSD is strictly above the average priceUSD, in reverse- alphabetical order.

select name
from products 
where priceUSD > (select avg(priceUSD) 
		    from products )
order by name desc;

3. Display the customer name, pid ordered, and the total for all orders, sorted by total from high to low.

select c.name, o.pid, sum(o.dollars)
from customers c inner join orders o on c.cid=o.cid
group by c.name, o.pid
order by sum(o.dollars) desc;

4. Display all customer names (in alphabetical order) and their total ordered, and nothing more. Use coalesce to avoid showing NULLs.
select c.name, o.pid, sum(coalesce(o.dollars))
from customers c
inner join order o 
on c.cid = o.cid
group by o.pid, c.name
order by sum(o.dollars) desc;

5. Display the names of all customers who bought products from agents based in Tokyo along with the names of the products they ordered, and the names of the agents who sold it to them.

select customers.name, products.name, agents.name
from customers
inner join orders 
on customers.cid=orders.cid
inner join products
on orders.pid=products.pid
on agents.aid=orders.aid
where agents.city='Tokyo';


6. Write a query to check the accuracy of the dollars column in the Orders table. This means calcu- lating Orders.totalUSD from data in other tables and comparing those values to the values in Or- ders.totalUSD. Display all rows in Orders where Orders.totalUSD is incorrect, if any.

Select*
From (select o.*, o.qty*p.pricesusd*(1-(discount/100)) as truedollars
from orders o 
inner join products p on o.pid = p.pid
inner join customers c on o.cid = c.cid) as tmptable
where dollars !=truedollars

7. What is the difference between a LEFT OUTER JOIN and a RIGHT OUTER JOIN? Give example queries in SQL to demonstrate. (Feel free to use the CAP2 database to make your points here.)

select c.name, o.pid, sum(o.dollars)
from customers c inner join orders o on c.cid = o.cid 
group by c.name, o.pid
order by sum(o.dollars) desc; 
